# ADA-Essay
####Carol Roscoe  
  
    
Help us get to know you! Answer the 4 questions below to introduce yourself and give us some background on why you're interested in Ada.

Please limit each answer to no more than 200 words total (Total limit of 800 words for all 4 questions). Answers should reflect your personality, creativity, and passion!

1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?
FS, PS, in preparing this application, learning markdown, gisthub, reading up on perl, html, etc.  



2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years?
Established in a sustainable career. 5 years, moving into manageing/training in that new field. 

3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?

What I'm about to say I mean in the best possible way: I make so many mistakes, it's difficult to choose just one. My early interests were in the math and sciences. During middle school, like many women in my generation, the recieved message was that girls weren't good at math or science and probably wouldn't make a career of it. In high school, I was lucky enough to have an inspiring (female) biology teacher. When she saw my interest in genetics, she quietly set me additional problems and reading. She organized fields trips for a small group of us to hear university lectures. By the time I entered college, my intent was to pursue Astrophysics or Genetics. The process of the scientific method made so much intuitive sense to me. As a naturally curious person, I was alwasy wondering "why does that happen, instead of this". Asking the question was never enough, I wanted to know. So, the process of coming up with a question, a hypothesis, and conducting tests to determine the answer or accuracy was delightful. Through completely unexpected circumstances, I found a passion for and home in theater. For some, the switch was surprising, but (in hindsight) it makes perfect sense to me. The daily action of a theater artist is experimentation. Every day in rehearsal we start with a question: how do I best tell this story? How do I create a particular response in the audience? How do I best embody this character? How do I get this actor to cross down stage without yelling at them? We come up with theories, we test them, we make note of what worked, and why. We make choices about selecting the most effective, efficient, and delightful solution. We do this a hundred times a day, every day. It is science, research, development, innovation, collaboration in time, space, and form. So, when I say I make so many mistakes, that is what I refer to. It has become my job to be willing to risk error, to risk mistake in order to discover the best solution. The more mistakes one makes, (if you are paying attention) the faster one can sort through and discard all those mistakes and hone in on better and more satisfying answers. My approach to mistakes is to look for them and welcome them. Each mistake offers the chance to become more attuned, more sophisticated, more facile in my work. When I realize a mistake has been made, problem solving comes in. Why was it a mistake? What false assumptions led me to make this mistake? How can this be adjusted for the future? Does something need to be fixed right now? How? Then, I take action and fix the mistake. 
I also recognize you are not looking for a thesis on the virtue of making mistakes, but would like specific example. Here's one that I think is particularly relavant as someone looking to switch careers, as it relates directly to a changing work environmnet. Taking a job at LS - mistake was not doing my due diligence in understanding the culture and unspoken/unwritten rules for navigating the organization. Next time, investing strategically in immersing myself in the culture and building relationships. Lunch with someone new regularly. Asking what's been successful, what hasn't. Asking questions about how and when decisions are made. 


4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.
Yes. So many things. Knitting. Cooking. Photoshop. Quilting
It usually begins from curiousity. A desire or a need to know how to do something. It often centers around a project. I want to create a quilt for a friend having her first child. I do not know how to thread a needle. So, I research. I skim books at a bookshop. I go online and read blogs, how to manuals, I watch videos. I ask friends if they know how to quilt and if so, how they approach it. I go to places quilters go - fabric shops. I ask the the most competent looking person there if they know about quilting and what they would advise for a first time quilter. I use what I learn to set up a plan. Design, shop, choose materials, clear work space, buy or borrow equipment and supplies, schedule time to do these steps. Then I implement the plan. As I sit down to quilt, and start cutting material, I notice none of my cuts are straight. So, I go back to the fabric shop with the grumpy competent employee and show her the squares. She explains my error and shows me a new technique. I return to the project and cut better squares. I follow all the rules. When I run into problems, I return to the best, clearest sources of information that I found (or find new ones if needed.) And then, far sooner than expected, I have a quilt. Now that's happened, I feel a little confident and I am ready to try again. This time, I give myself more room. I don't pick only the recommended fabrics, rather I experiment with difficult fabrics and find out why they are no good, or challenging. I learn (see above) or discover through experimentation, the way to work with those fabrics. I look back over the concepts behind design and get out a blank piece of paper and sketch the creation I want to make. It has circles and appliques, it uses multiple fabric sources, it doesn't conform to all the patterns. I find out (via learning and discovery) how to make it. I make it. I make a few more. When I can throw one together in a few days with minimal effort, I feel I've learned to do it. 
And I grow hungry to learn something new. 
